docs(website): update remote raycluster execution (#221)
IBM/ado: website/docs/getting-started/remote_run.md

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  #The following envars may be required or useful depending on your specific needs
```

### Dynamic installation from pypi

The recommended method is to specify `ado-core` and the pypi package names
of any plugins required in the `uv` section of the `runtime_env.yaml` as
shown in [the quickstart example](#setting-the-ray-job-environment).

### Dynamic installation from source

If the `ado` plugins or `ado-core` version you need are not on pypi you can install
them from source. There are two steps:

1. Build python wheels for `ado` and/or the required plugins
you need to install from source
2. Tell Ray to install the wheels as part of the Ray job submission

#### Building python wheels

> [!TIP]
>
> Repeat this step when the source code changes between Ray jobs
> and you want to include the changes.

##### Build the `ado` wheel

In the top-level of the `ado` repository:

  ```bash
  : # Remove any previous wheel to avoid using wrong one
  rm -rf dist/ 
  : # Creates  `dist/` directory with the wheel. It will have a name like `ado_core-$VERSION-py3-none.whl`
  uv build
  # Copy the wheel to the Ray job directory
  mv dist/*.whl $RAY_JOB_DATA_DIR
  ```

##### Build the plugin wheels

In the top-level of the plugins package, for example, one of the

> subdirectories of "plugins/actuators/" in the `ado` `repository, execute:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the top-level of the plugins package, for example, one of the
subdirectories of "plugins/actuators/" in the `ado` repository, execute:
```

An example `runtime_env.yaml` which dynamically installs the latest release of ado
and its plugins is:
<!-- markdownlint-disable line-length -->
<!-- markdownlint-disable-next-line code-block-style -->
```yaml
uv: # One line for each plugin (actuator, operator) to install
  - ado-core
  - ado-ray-tune # If you aim to run a ray-tune operation
  - ado-vllm-performance # Substitute with whatever plugins you need
env_vars: # These env_vars are recommended.
  PYTHONUNBUFFERED: "x" # Turns of buffering of the jobs logs. Useful if there is some error
  OMP_NUM_THREADS: "1" # Restricts the number of threads started by the python process in the job. If this is not set it can cause the ray job to exceed OpenShift node thread limits.
  OPENBLAS_NUM_THREADS: "1" # Same as above
  RAY_AIR_NEW_PERSISTENCE_MODE: "0" # Required for using the ray_tune operator
  #The following envars may be required or useful depending
  HOME: "/tmp" # Optional: Use if python code used by operation assumes $HOME is writable which it may not be
  LOGLEVEL: "WARNING" # Optional: Set this to get more/less debug logs from ado
```
<!-- markdownlint-enable line-length -->

>[!NOTE] Ray python package caching
>

> > Ray will cache packages its asked to install so they are

Author: ```suggestion
> Ray caches packages it is asked to install so they are
```

Best in general case
- [Dynamic installation from source](#dynamic-installation-from-source):
Best for developers
- [pre-install](#pre-installing-ado-packages): Best when you are using the
same actuators and operator constantly

### Pre-installing ado packages

In this method `ado` and the required plugins are installed in the
Ray cluster's base python environment e.g. in the image used for head and
worker nodes.

In this case you do not need to specify any packages in the `runtime_env.yaml`,
if the pre-installed ones are sufficient.
This method has the benefit of not having any overhead in job start from
python package download or build steps.

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD007 -->
>[!WARNING] Using additional plugins with pre-installed ado
>
> If you need additional plugins or different versions of pre-installed
> plugins **you must do a dynamic installation of `ado-core` and all
> actuators you need**.
> This is because:
>
> - The pre-installed `ado` command is tied to the base-environment
>     - It will not see new packages. You need to install it
> into the job virtualenv
> - The ado_actuators namespace package will be superseded by one created in

> > the job virtualenv

Reviewer: Yes I was - got it! Nevermind, then

> # Running `ado` on remote ray clusters

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Running `ado` on remote Ray clusters
```

<!-- markdownlint-disable-next-line first-line-h1 -->

> [!NOTE]  Summary
>
> This page explains how to run an `ado` operation on a remote ray
> cluster, enabling long-running operations that can utilize multiple nodes
> and large amounts of compute-resource like GPUs
<!-- markdownlint-disable-next-line MD028 -->

> [!TIP] Why run `ado` on a remote ray cluster?
>
> ado `operations` can benefit from running on a remote ray cluster when
> they require (or can use) more compute resource
> than is available on your laptop. This is usually because one or both of the
> following is true:
>
> - the operation can leverage the fact that `ado` is built on `Ray` to run large
> numbers of distributed tasks
> - the operation requires access to large amounts of compute resources, like
> GPUs.
>
> Another advantage of running an `ado operation` on a remote cluster
> is you don't have to keep your laptop open and active.

## Quickstart

### Getting ready

First, create an empty directory to store the files that need to be

> uploaded to the remote ray cluster for the `ado` command to run. In the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
uploaded to the remote Ray cluster for the `ado` command to run. In the
```

following we will refer to this directory as `$RAY_JOB_DATA_DIR`.

> This will be usually be the following three YAML files:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will usually be the following three YAML files:
```

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD007 -->
- A YAML file describing [the context](../resources/metastore.md) to use for the
  operation.
    - You can use `ado get context -o yaml` to get this file for the context you
      want to use
- A YAML file describing [the operation](../resources/operation.md) to create.
- A YAML file describing [the environment of the ray job](#ray-runtime-environment-runtime-env)
<!-- markdownlint-enable MD007 -->

We will refer to the first file as `context.yaml`, the second as
`operation.yaml`, and the last as `runtime_env.yaml`, although they
can have any names.

> ### Setting the ray job environment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Setting the Ray job environment
```

A example `runtime_env.yaml` which dynamically installs the last released `ado`
and `ado` plugins versions is
<!-- markdownlint-disable line-length -->
<!-- markdownlint-disable-next-line code-block-style -->
```yaml
uv: # One line for each plugin (actuator, operator) to install
  - ado-core
  - ado-ray-tune # If you aim to run a ray-tune operation
  - ado-vllm-performance # Substitute with whatever plugins you need

> env_vars: # These envars are recommend.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
env_vars: # These env_vars are recommended.
```

>
> If you need additional plugins or different versions of pre-installed
> plugins **you must do a dynamic installation of `ado-core` and all
> actuators you need**.
> This is because:
>
> - The pre-installed `ado` command is tied to the base-environment
>     - It will not see new packages. You need to install it
> into the job virtualenv
> - The ado_actuators namespace package will be superseded by one created in
> the job virtualenv
>     - Actuators in the same namespace package in the base environment
> will not be seen
<!-- markdownlint-enable MD007 -->

### Dynamic installation from pypi

The recommended method is to specify `ado-core` and the pypi package names
of any plugins required in the `uv` section of the `runtime_env.yaml` as
shown in [the quickstart example](#setting-the-ray-job-environment).

### Dynamic installation from source

If the `ado` plugins or `ado-core` version you need are not on pypi you can install
If the `ado` plugins or `ado-core` version you need are not on pypi you can install
them from source. There are two steps:

1. Build python wheels for `ado` and/or the required plugins
you need to install from source

> 2. Tell ray to install the wheels as part of ray-job submission

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Tell Ray to install the wheels as part of the Ray job submission
```

#### Building python wheels

> [!TIP]
>
> Repeat this step when the source code changes between ray jobs
> and you want to include the changes.

##### Build the `ado` wheel

In the top-level of the `ado` repository:

  ```bash
  : # Remove any previous wheel to avoid using wrong one
  rm -rf dist/ 
  : # Creates  `dist/` directory with the wheel. It will have a name like `ado_core-$VERSION-py3-none.whl`
  uv build

>   # Copy the wheel to the ray job directory

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  # Copy the wheel to the Ray job directory
```

```
<!-- markdownlint-enable line-length -->

> [!IMPORTANT] RAY_RUNTIME_ENV_CREATE_WORKING_DIR
>
> Do not remove or modify the string ${RAY_RUNTIME_ENV_CREATE_WORKING_DIR}
> when specifying the wheel names. It is required before every wheel you want to

> > upload and if it is changed the wheel installation will fail.

Reviewer: I'd move this before the code block so that people are already aware of it

inactive. Once it stops you will not be able to get to the ray cluster until it
is restarted.

> [!IMPORTANT]
>
> `ray job submit` communicates to the ray cluster using different protocols via
> the given URL. This means if only http is allowed to be sent to the URL
> `ray job submit` will not work. This is usually why you need a port-forward

> > compared to, say, an OpenShift route.

Reviewer 2: ues that works

<!-- markdownlint-disable line-length -->
<!-- markdownlint-disable-next-line code-block-style -->
```yaml
uv: # One line for each wheel/package to install, in this example there is two. Be sure to check spelling.
  - ado-core
  - ${RAY_RUNTIME_ENV_CREATE_WORKING_DIR}/$ADO_PLUGIN1.whl
env_vars: # These envars are recommend. Some plugins may require others. Check plugin docs.

>   PYTHONUNBUFFERED: "x" # Turns of buffering of the jobs logs. Useful if there is some error

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  PYTHONUNBUFFERED: "x" # Turns off buffering of the jobs logs. Useful if there is some error
```
